They say that not all books yield up their wisdom with just one reading. And they also say that superstition brings bad luck. I wonder what these two things have in common?

Once upon a time, I saw a Surface.

It was a Surface like no other.

It could be described as a surface of revolution; but the equation would be multidimensional, like using a surface of revolution to describe a galaxy full of hundreds of millions of stars.

It was simply sitting there, looking like an infinitely-long wire somehow suspended in finite space and time.

The more I looked at it, the more it seemed to change.

But how closely was I looking? How big was I in comparison to the Surface?

These simple questions of depth-perception came into view.

It's arc length in my own vision was determined by my own relative judgment of my own size.

But what I saw transformed the perfection of the circle into an even higher perfection.

As George Sand said about Chopin's music, it seemed to speak the language of eternity.

The shiny metal looked somewhat like zinc, glinting in the pale light of the thick clouds above me.

Hollow as it was, if it were to make a sound, it would sound like somewhat like a tuning fork, and a pitch close to G# in the chromatic scale.

An infinitude of different mandalas could be drawn in two dimensions, from its three-dimensional form; shapes redolent of the Ptolemaic orbits of the planets.

Reading about the Kalevala kind of made me imagine it; there's a point at which ____ goes into the forest and builds the ____, which an the illustration by ____ depicts as a kind of infinite surface.

At this moment of ten o clock in the morning of January 2nd, I have no idea where that surface really is.

I just know that it once invited me to abandon my life as I was living it, at the time, slashing confidently though the hidden parallelogram of forces that were my destiny.

Had I remained with it in meditation or prayer despite the curiosity of its form, to simply feel it in my hands, like feeling a sword, as it traced its infinitude of tangent surfaces in the thick air around me, I would possibly have fallen into another universe entirely, for the surface was like a portable wormhole.

Would things have gone any differently if I hadn't found it where I found it?

If I'd found it in some kind of temple, perhaps I'd have meditated and prayed with it.

Being a portable wormhole, it folded itself up and vanished within a few minutes of my finding it.

An object that violated the laws of physics -- this made it all the more marvelous to look at.

It seemed to rotate in my hands, though it stood still.

Though the metal it was made of looked like zinc, I could tell it was somehow maximally photoelectric.

A single cardinal flitted from branch to branch, seeming to echo the short conversation I'd had with the object.

I had encountered the eneffable, and the cardinal was there to bear witness.

It doesn't take long for the experience of the Numinous to unhinge the mind.

I could not stop thinking about it, in the months that followed.

I looked in every sort of advanced mathematics book I could find for some kind of similar shape.

I found a few shapes that looked remeniscent of it, in topolgy books.

But there was nothing quite like it or even really that similar to it in those books.

After a few years, I was still unable to take my mind off of it.

I wondered what kind of civilization could have produced it: a literal tesseract.

xxxxxxx

To enter the valley where I found the tesseract, you must first pay entry dues to the company currently managing the state park where I found it.

You must first enter the visitor's center, and purchase admission for the day.

From that point, most people skip past the area where I found the tesseract, and continue on a hike.

An an average day, there are many cars parked in the parking lot adjacent to the area where I found it; the area receives a lot of visitors every day.

I often fantasized about staying in the park overnight; there are spots for camping, though these are often booked for weeks in advance.

So I often wondered if there were some way to enter the park unseen by night, or if there were too much surveillance to do so.

2

In the years that followed I tried as hard as I could to be rational about the Tesseract.

I tried to think of every possible way to calculate its form according to ordinary equations.

I ended up experimenting with parametric trigonometric equations, which seemed to bear tantalyzing results.

I started out with the form of the rosette: _____

And then I started to transpose this to three dimensions, simply by repeating the same equation across x, y, and z axes.

The field of antenna design seemed profitable for converting these equations into ones that could; but as a field of study, it was so dense that I could barely make headway.

I was fortunate enough to secure a job working for an inventor, an electrical engineer who built computer numerical control (CNC) devices.

He would go to an auction, and secure a supply of 1000 transistors, for example, a decade or two old, at a bargain price.

He would design his next iteration of CNC machines using the specifications from those transistors, not worried about how many of them had some kind of flaw.

Through this experience, I was able to determine the types of electrical engineering knowledge that could contribute to my quest to understand the Tesseract.

The alternating current coil of a standard transformer, for example, piqued my interest, as its form was the closest thing in human technology to the tesseract itself.

Since a transformer works by induction, I added electromagnetic induction to my list of things to study, along with topology.

Of course, a transformer shows its seams, and the Tesseract, for as complicated of a geometrical shape as it was, had no seams.

It almost seemed as if Nikola Tesla could have seen such a tesseract, because many of his fields of interest reflected my own.

I was also fascinated by the biblical metal, electrum, an alloy of silver and gold -- more electrically conductive than either metal by itself.

The way in which light moved in spiral paths seemed definitely connected to the shape of the tesseract, and so I studied everything I could about the quantum nature of light.

Once in a while I'd see some copper jewelry that reminded me of the tesseract, in which the jeweller spent hours and hours winding a copper wire around another piece of metal.

But the thought of using any form of sculpture or jewelry to model the Tesseract seemed wrong to me; I preferred the sense of knowledge that came from using mathematical equations and theories.

Time and time again, it seemed that science had either failed to advance or that the best physics simply didn't make it to any kind of publisher.

And so I would call that point of investigation into the Tesseract, symbolically, The Singularity.

From it, I branched out into all other forms of investigation, like the trunk of a tree becomes the branches of a tree.

The Singularity was several years of confusion, and of anxious longing, to understand what I had found that fateful morning, under thick blankets of cloud that shortly thereafter began to rain.

And so after The Singularity, it could be said, came simply The Understanding.

xxxxxxx

Throughout the ensuing years, often I simply lazed in bed, trying to imagine again and again the shape of the Tesseract.

I didn't want to forget anything about it, so I spent hours just going over the details in my mind's eye.

I didn't care about anything going on around me. I was fairly sure my girlfriend was sleeping with someone else, and the thought of that didn't bother me.

Any time I talked to anyone, all I cared about was what they would think of what I had seen.

If anyone were doubtful about my experience, I simply stopped talking to them entirely.

Because most people didn't know what to say about it, I ended up isolating myself from people; this didn't bother me. It gave me the resolve to keep studying.

Humanity, as it turned out, was preoccupied with a lot of things that didn't really matter.

The one person who seemed to be willing to listen was this applied mathematician in Austria, who was always making animations of fractal worlds, rep-tiles, and journeys into hyperspheres.

She quickly became one of my favorite people in the world; for a while, I wrote her every day.

I wrote her about the possibility of all of us being in possession of alien technology, if our world would only turn away from war.

I wrote her about my speculations as to which branches of mathematics were most fertile, and would continue to be relevant for many years.

When she gave birth, and when she got married, I was subtly disappointed that she, like everyone else, had a so-called real life.

Our mathematical correspondence had transformed her into a goddess, in my mind; and I felt that anything I might say to her would be given its proper attention.

I took no note when her interests were different from my own. I offered her suggestions about how to proceed in her own work.

In short, I became detached from the process of scientific exchange, which is one of my greatest regrets.

I should have tried to understand her method, which was to animate hyperspace using, simply the Java programming language, so that I could talk to her in her own language.

Instead of branching out into my own mystical interpretations of the Tesseract, I should have latched onto her language for understanding her own creations, as a possible language for my own understanding.

Once I found another mind that was thinking even remotely parallel to my own, I should have tried to put myself inside of it.

Instead, I continued trying to find that one person who could explain it all to me, who it seemed must exist.

I only began to conjecture that Raphael must have known something about the Tesseract, years later, when I looked at the painting by his school divided into four scenes.

These four scenes are: Jacob's ladder to heaven, ___, ___, and ___.

I also saw, in the design of certain minarets of certain mosques, a vague similarity to the Tesseract.

But none of that was seamless like the Tesseract itself.

And so The Understanding was a period full of misunderstandings and simple identifications.

I permuted different cosine series, sine series, and simply tried different special functions as trigonometric parametric equations.

I nested various trigonometric series inside of each other, and experimented over and over, modifying the results every time.

As if pursued by some unseen force which wished me to only discover the beginnings of knowledge -- once I had arrived at some particularly good equations, I deleted all of my data on accident, and was forced to start virtually from scratch.

But I kept trying, and often read the science news with gusto.

Sometimes there would be news articles about black holes or singularities, and I would read the original papers corresponding to these.

I was particularly fascinated by the research published by astrophysicists who are currently studying the supermassive black hole at the center of our galaxy, Sagittarius A*.

It fascinated me that this black hole was finally observed to have twenty seven stars in its orbit.

Since I had studied gematria, I knew that this was quite close to the numerical value of the ineffable Name used in the Torah.

The number twenty-seven is also exactly equivalent to the number of Hebrew letters, if the final forms of each letter are taken into account and considered as separate letters altogether.

And because the orbits of those twenty seven stars can not be calculated by any form of differential equation, I was fascinated by our own Milky Way's black hole.

It seems like spending a lifetime trying to formulate those 27 orbits could bring me closer to understanding the Tesseract than any amount of trigonometry by itself.

This is because I know that the mathematics of the Tesseract transcend differential equations, in any sense; they transcend singular integral equations, and push the boundaries of relativistic dynamics to the absolute limit.

And yet, my intuition tells me that there may be a way to transcend differential equations simply by taking trigonometry more seriously.

If we understand that trigonometry can be used in the sense of complex analysis, as in nonlinear equations, perhaps we have come close.

Or, again, if we begin to formulate number theory in terms of trigonometry, perhaps we are not so far.

Yet again, if we take note of the fact, as all the scientists studying Sagittarius A* have done, that the orbit of Mercury is close to the circumference of the Milky Way's own supermassive black hole, perhaps we are approaching something divine and mysterious.

The orbit of Mercury cannot be predicted according to Newtonian dynamics alone, just as the orbits of those 27 central stars of our galaxy cannot be predicted according to the celestial mechanics in use today.

And so perhaps that phase of reckoning with the Tesseract, in which different fields of knowledge are assembled together almost like the pieces of a puzzle, can be called The Interpretation.

Not by mastering any one discipline in totality -- but by assembling the little scraps of wisdom that come from every discipline that concerns itself with the mysteries of creation.

xxxxxxx

So many branches of science end up with a superficial sense of their own mastery.

It was easy for the Catholic Church to go after Galileo, especially since he had convinced the hoi polloi that he was right, by giving them a book that just required purchasing a telescope to read.

Controlling information was, and always has been, more important to the Catholic Church than anything else.

Reading Saint Thomas Aquinas, so many of his conclusions seem absurd, such as the ones invalidating the Ten Commandments using short, so-called logical arguments.

Controlling information is never the way to accomplish anything.

It's a disease of human civilization, often spread by warlike societies: keeping secrets in order to retain the illusion of being technologically superior.

If The Interpretation is made by adding up all the missing pieces, like a puzzle, and trying to fill in the gaps, then it's a picture of the solution that will only collapse if we try to call it a final solution.

Every time we get to that point, we must focus on the gaps in the knowledge; there is a temptation to think that some kind of expert system like artificial intelligence can do the rest of the work.

In truth, The Interpretation collapses the moment we cease to focus on it as a representation of the problem itself; as a final solution to the problem, rather than as a waypoint in the process of solving it.

The Interpretation is a superficial glimpse of the solution to the problem -- but once civilizations are in possession of all the different pieces to a problem, they tend to get greedy, and start to hide what they know.

The profound experience I had with the Tesseract is the truth; The Interpretation is the lie.

The Tesseract changed my entire life; and The Interpretation merely something by which to normalize the fact that my entire world changed according to It.

In truth, the universe of the Tesseract can't co-exist with ours; we are still thousands and thousands of years behind it.

In summary, working on The Interpretation is a way of pretending that such advanced technology can exist in our own world.

Fifteen years ago, the thought that technologies such as the Tesseract could come from other worlds, and even peek into ours, was something I did not believe in.

My ex-wife, who I was married to at the time, had given me all sorts of Jungian explanations as to the reasons why unidentified flying objects were simply a sign of human psychosis.

Like the Catholic Church, Jung believed in controlling information; but he believed in controlling it not by restricting it, but by interpreting it.

And now I know that there is almost no greater statement of faith than the words, I want to believe.

No one has lived in the past, and it's not the future yet; the present is the source of all life -- but the present is just the past.

You might say that we all live, presently, a really long time ago.

Maybe the distant past is the best place for authentic Revolutions to even occur.

The Tesseract looked, up to a certain point, like a surface of revolution; but only up to a point.

